Part one of this exercise asked you to identify the first 10 professional roles,
for which you would recruit for a new data science organization.
How would you organize these roles into teams within the organization?
If I had 10 positions from my data science team,
I would organize my professionals into three groups,
much like in the walkthrough we just finished.
First, I would fill two project-specific teams,
that would be deployed on individual projects on the data science roadmap.
Again, I would also keep a third group of specialists,
who would float between the two teams.
My first team would be heavy on data scientists,
as the skill set associated with that role tends to be able to complete
many of the task critical on the road to developing prototypes,
and proofs of concept.
I would also hire a data analyst,
who could free up some of the data scientists to complete more technical tasks.
I would not hire only generalists, however,
a machine-learning engineer would be a valuable specialist for teams
developing data science projects for which machine learning is key.
Once again, I would probably keep this same structure for my second team as well.
I would fill my last two positions with
a data engineer and a data visualization engineer.
Again, at this point the goal is to develop working prototypes,
I believe the data engineering and data visualization skills,
will not be in demand enough to allocate full time specialists to individual teams.
The second part of this exercise asked
how you would prioritize your organization or build-out,
if leadership were to allocate only four new FTEs for your data science organization,
during the current fiscal year.
My first hire would be a data scientist,
in particular, a data science hacker.
Having a generalist data scientist,
will allow the project to get started as
this position will be able to set up all aspects ETL,
modeling, visualization of the initial proof of concept.
Second, I'd hire a machine-learning engineer.
The first project relies heavily on machine learning,
so this professional will be key to building the proof
of concept and then optimizing for production.
My third hire would be a data engineer.
Proof of concept, ETL might be handled by the data science hacker,
but for production, we will need production quality ETL,
designed by a data engineer.
I would round out my first team with a second data scientist hire.
Adding another data scientists to the team,
will ease the burden on the first hire and also free up the machine-learning engineer
and data engineer from any general data science tasks they may have been covering on.